just got a question from the audience J
costliest here in the audience of my
livestream he's appeared in this channel
before in interviews and discussions J
is asking to what extent veganism as an
identity is something determined by
vegans themselves now I think what he
has in mind is the simple question is
are you vegan simply because you
identify as vegan is anyone who claims
to be vegan
therefore if so facto vegan but I view
the question and the problem in a bit
more of a culturally complex context
what does it mean to be vegan I've been
in a scenario in Taiwan where in the
context of traditional Taiwanese culture
Taiwanese Chinese culture Buddhist
culture Confucian culture miscellaneous
Chinese ancestor worship religious and
supernatural beliefs when I identified
myself as vegan people perceive me with
a certain kind of snide contempt and
they wanted to ask one way or another do
you really believe in ghosts now to some
of you watching this video that may seem
completely surreal what does veganism
have to do with believing in ghosts well
in Taiwanese culture one has quite a lot
to do with the other many of the people
you meet who've become vegan in Taiwan
believe in karma the more form or
another and they may really live their
lives in fear of the dead of dead people
ghosts being entities that have to make
decisions that have real impacts on
their lives any a belief is kind of easy
to talk about in that context it's often
a lot more useful to talk about fear a
fear of ghosts fear of the dead fear of
bad karma etc because when people fear
these things that changed their lives
accordingly that's a very sure sign of
how real the role of belief is in their
lives one entered ad from a friend was
of a young woman who got pregnant she
and her boyfriend had an accidental
pregnancy and they looked at the
calendar and they actually delayed
having the abortion
until a date on the calendar that they
felt was less likely to result in the
ghost of the fetus haunting them this is
telling about Buddhist morality in many
ways they do regard abortion as bad
karma was an act of violence and a sin
that will produce a ghost but they're
actually respond to that challenge by
trying to kind of negotiate with the
supernatural cosmology and choose a
lucky date on the calendar but those are
people who really believe in ghosts who
really fear ghosts so in that cultural
context when I identify as vegan I may
think of veganism is something very
strongly linked to ecology very strongly
to a political discourse that I come on
YouTube and talk about but the identity
people are gonna impose on me reflects a
set of cultural assumptions I have no
control over now maybe Tom one is a
little bit too exotic and bizarre for
you watching this video some people are
gonna be familiar with it so not
obviously probably I have some regular
viewers in this channel who are here
because they know about my background in
Asian Studies in Asian languages but for
some of you that's a little bit hard to
imagine let me tell you in France which
is not nearly so exotic living in France
when you tell people that you're vegan
they have a lot of political assumptions
about who you are and what you believe
and they will often have the same kind
of religious assumptions about who you
are what you believe or they will
perceive you as someone with
supernatural cult-like beliefs as being
the only explanation for why you'd be
vegan and that stereotype is obviously
not without a basis so I think that's
part of the reason and why there is so
much self policing of the identity
within veganism self policing is too big
about explain what I mean here I see a
lot of irrational behavior on the
internet of vegans basically castigating
and beating up other vegans because
they're really afraid if this behavior
is perceived as normal within veganism
if whatever the behaviour
trying to proceed then other people will
associate that with veganism now that
can be true even of lazy veganism and
making mature even with the fear that
look if other people think it's okay to
eat honey or if other people think it's
okay to you know eat milk ingredients as
long as they're invisible or some of
that if there's somebody who's a lazy
vegan describe themselves as veganism
describe what they do as veganism
describe themselves vegan that that will
have knock-on effects for how veganism
is perceived now they themselves as they
begin to perceive that this will
actually pollute the definition of
veganism that's a little bit simple
straightforward but you see the same
kind of behavior kind of telescoping out
into questions of you know what is the
connection between veganism and the
so-called anti VAX movement so that's
hysteria about possible and actual
side-effects from vaccines so in many
cases the side effects the talking about
are real but they're one in a million
and that one in a million side effect is
being too used to justify an anti
medical establishment position refusing
to accept vaccines well in the recent
past that say just two years ago there
was a very very strong connection you
could see on the internet all the time
or very significant overlap between the
public face of veganism and the public
face of the the anti-vaxxers there's a
so-called crunchy mom phenomenon I think
10 years from now nobody's gonna
remember the term crunchy mom but in the
internet that was a big deal just two
years ago and there were all these
people on all these message boards
putting together information and you
know the same people who would put
together these kind of crazy
semi-scientific excuses for condemning
vaccines what at the same time for
putting together crazy semi-scientific
excuses for why if you were vegan you
didn't really need to take a b12
supplement and you do scientifically you
really do need to take a b12 seven but
even the meat-eaters should all be
taking v12 supplements in terms of what
what science tells us but you can
understand why vegans get into trying to
police the identity internally the
vegans beating up on and censoring other
vegan
because of this fear if we let this pass
if we let this become normal if we let
this become publicly perceived as normal
and veganism then that's going to come
back to haunt us so the question the
original question was is the identity of
veganism something 100% determined
controlled by ourselves as vegans or is
it partly determined by perception by
public perception I think the tragedy
we're all stuck with is that it's a
hundred percent determined by public
perception when it really matters and
when does it really matter it matters
when you're in a prison cell and you're
trying to explain to the jailer that you
can't eat any of the food you've been
given it matters when you're a parent in
France and your child is required by the
school authorities to eat meat that's a
requirement that it launched they're
served need and as a parent you don't
have the right to refuse and maybe the
principle calls you up and explains this
to you or the principal calls in a
doctor and the doctor informs you as a
vegan that it's impossible for your
child to get enough protein if they
don't eat meat and cheese this kind of
thing when you're dealing with people in
positions of authority the way they
perceive you their assumptions about you
because you're vegan and they're
assumptions of a veganism that may
indeed you know directly or indirectly
be based on the caste of crazy
eccentrics who managed to get in the
limelight here on the internet or it may
be based on for example animal rights
terrorists as it was for many decades in
Europe a small number of people who used
violence really destroyed the reputation
of animal rights just as a term animal
rights as a term had to be designed
destroyed the reputation of the anti-fur
movement because of its length of
violence and I do think to a significant
extent in the last 10 years
veganism is had an uphill struggle
precisely because the reputation earned
by small numbers of headline-grabbing
violent protesters so no sadly zero
percent of it is under our control
what's under our control is our diet
what's under our control is our ability
to organize ourselves politically to
accomplish real things to real activism
but public perception it can be
terrifying it can be especially
terrifying when you're talking about the
perception of people who are in a role
of authority over you to control your
life to control your child's life at the
prison at the school at the retirement
home at the hospital and those already
are really good reasons for why veganism
must be articulated as a political
struggle not just as a diet not just as
a form of personal purity and indeed not
just as an ecological or animal rights
movement but ultimately as a movement
for vegans themselves as a visible
minority living within Western
democratic societies